PREVIOUSLY ON "WHITE COLLAR"...
Neal:
I BROKE INTO PETER'S SAFE.
I HAD THE LIST IN MY HAND.
I WAS READY
TO TAKE THE TREASURE AND GO.
THEN WHY DIDN'T YOU?
I HAVE A LIFE HERE.
I RUN ON THIS,
AND NEW YORK
IS JUST A MEMORY FOR ME.
HE STOLE A RAPHAEL!CONJECTURE, YOUR HONOR.
AND I PURSUED.
AND I HAVEN'T FORGOTTEN
ABOUT THE RAPHAEL.OHH!
NEAL CODED HIS LETTERS.
AND WE CRACKED IT.
DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY MEAN YET,
BUT WE WILL.
I'M --
AGENT KRAMER.
HEAD OF THE BUREAU'S
D.C. ART CRIMES UNIT.
SO YOU'RE THE ONE WHO TAUGHT
PETER EVERYTHING HE KNOWS.
I'D SAY THIS MOMENT
WAS INEVITABLE, MR. CAFFREY.
Peter: NEAL'S MY C.I.HE'S ALSO A FRIEND.
YOU THINK ONCE A CON,
ALWAYS A CON?
I THINK YOU HAVE TO PROTECT
YOURSELF WHEN THEY FALL.
YOU HAVE THE TREASURE.
I DIDN'T STEAL IT.YOU SON OF A BITCH!
I DON'T CARE.
YOU HAVEIT.
WHERE IS IT?
IT WAS HERE.
HE ALREADY MOVED IT.
MOZZIE?
OF COURSE IT WAS MOZZIE.
I DIDN'T THINK HE'D MOVE IT
THIS FAST.
WHAT IS IT?
THIS IS A LETTER
FROM THE U.S. PROBATION OFFICE.
"BECAUSE OF YOUR
OUTSTANDING SERVICE,
"INCLUDING RECOVERING
THE TREASURE
"AND CATCHING KELLER,
"THE U.S. PROBATION OFFICE
IS CONVENING A HEARING
TO DISCUSS THE COMMUTATION
OF YOUR SENTENCE."
WHAT'S THAT MEAN?
IT MEANS NO ANKLET.
NO NOTHING.
YOU COULD BE A FREE MAN.
Holloman: STATE YOUR NAME
FOR THE RECORD, PLEASE.
NEAL GEORGE CAFFREY.
MR. CAFFREY, DO YOU UNDERSTAND
WHY YOU'RE SITTING HERE TODAY?
I DO.
THE U.S. ATTORNEY HAS PETITIONED
A RULE 35 MOTION
ON MY BEHALF,
WHICH, IF GRANTED,
WOULD COMMUTE MY SENTENCE AND
SET ABOUT MY OWN RECOGNIZANCE.
IN ESSENCE, YOU WANT TO KNOW
IF I'VE EARNED MY FREEDOM.
YOU'VE DONE
YOUR HOMEWORK.
YES, MA'AM.
YOU'VE ALREADY SERVED TWO YEARS
OF A FOUR-YEAR SENTENCE
UNDER THE SUPERVISION
OF SPECIAL AGENT PETER BURKE.
YES, MA'AM.
WHILE CONFINED
TO A TRACKING ANKLET,
YOU'VE HELPED
AGENT BURKE CLEAR
AN IMPRESSIVE
94% CONVICTION RATE.
WE WORK WELL TOGETHER.
IT WOULD SEEM SO.
THE RECENT ARREST
OF MATTHEW KELLER,
ONE OF THE FBI's TOP 10
MOST WANTED FUGITIVES,
THE RECOVERY
OF A PRICELESS COLLECTION
OF ARTWORK HE STOLE --
YOU ARE THE POSTER BOY
FOR REFORM.
WHO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT?
[ CHUCKLES ]
YOU CAME INTO THIS LEGAL SYSTEM
AS A CRIMINAL.
THE QUESTION BEFORE THIS BOARD
TODAY IS -- HAVE YOU CHANGED?
I BELIEVE I HAVE.
OVER THE NEXT TWO DAYS,
WE'LL BE INTERVIEWING SOME
OF YOUR CLOSEST ACQUAINTANCES
AND COLLEAGUES.
THEN WE'LL HAVE YOU BACK
TO MAKE A FINAL STATEMENT,
AT WHICH TIME AGENT BURKE
WILL GIVE HIS
SUMMARY RECOMMENDATION.
ANY QUESTIONS?
NO, MA'AM.
BUT MAY I SAY THAT
THE LAST TWO YEARS OF MY LIFE
HAVE BEEN THE BEST --
YOU'LL HAVE TIME FOR ALL THAT
TWO DAYS FROM NOW.
YES, MA'AM.
THIS IS IMPRESSIVE,
MR. CAFFREY.
I HOPE THE REAL YOU LIVES UP
TO WHO YOU ARE ON PAPER.
I HOPE TO EXCEED
YOUR EXPECTATION.
YOU'RE FREE TO GO.
Moz: "FREE TO GO."
QUITE AN INSPIRING
TURN OF PHRASE.
EXCEPT "YOU'RE FREE TO STAY"
MIGHT BE MORE APPROPRIATE.
HOW'S IT LOOKING?
OH, FLIP A COIN.
[ SIGHS ]
REGARDLESS OF WHAT
THE COMMITTEE DECIDES,
THIS IS MY HOME NOW.
AND I AM RIGHT
BESIDE YOU.
MAKE A BRAND-NEW START
OF IT IN OLD NEW YORK.
[ GLASSES CLINK ]
WELL, WHEN YOU MAKE
THAT BRAND-NEW START,
I'VE GOT A SURPRISE.
WHAT KIND OF SURPRISE?OH, A HUGE ONE.
MAKES CANIS MAJORIS
LOOK LIKE A NIGHT LIGHT.
BUT I WILL SAY NO MORE.
I'LL ASK NO MORE.
OH.
THERE SEEMS TO BE
SOMEONE MISSING
FROM YOUR COMMUTATION
WITNESS LIST.
YEAH, SORRY ABOUT THAT,
BUT HAVING A KNOWN FELON
SPEAK FOR ME
DOESN'T QUALIFY
AS A GOOD CHARACTER REFERENCE.
I AM A FELON,
BUT I'M NOT KNOWN--
AT LEAST IN
BUREAUCRATIC CIRCLES.
I STAND CORRECTED.
BUT I'VE ALREADY GOT PLENTY
OF PEOPLE ON MY SIDE.
ELIZABETH, JUNE...SARA.
REALLY?
YEAH.
GOOD.
WHAT ABOUT THE DEMI-SUITS?
MM. JONES AND DIANA?
WILD CARDS.
[ CHUCKLES ]
OH, AND THE SUIT HIMSELF?
WELL, CONSIDERING EVERYTHING
THAT'S HAPPENED --
WITH THE TREASURE,
WITH KELLER --
PETER COULD GO
EITHER WAY.
THINK HE'S DECIDED?
I DON'T KNOW.
OH, HOLD ON.
AGENT KRAMER, THE D.C.
ART CRIMES GRAND-PèRE --
HE'S SPEAKING?
KRAMER WAS SUPPOSED TO SUBMIT
A WRITTEN REPORT
ON BEHALF OF THE BUREAU.
IF HE'S SPEAKING IN PERSON,
THAT'S MORE THAN A FORMALITY.
WELL, WHAT DOES THAT DO
TO YOUR CHANCES?
WELL, I CAN'T IMAGINE
IT IMPROVES THEM.
YOU KNOW WHAT?
WORST-CASE SCENARIO, HE SAYS NO,
AND I STAY ON THE ANKLET
WITH PETER.
WELL, BEHIND EVERY
WORST-CASE SCENARIO,
THERE'S A WORSE
WORST-CASE SCENARIO.
ISN'T THERE A CHILD
WHOSE BALLOON YOU NEED
TO POP SOMEWHERE?
OH. YEAH. NEGATIVITY --
FORCE OF HABIT.
I'M...SURE
IT DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING.
YEAH. NOTHING.
[ KNOCK ON DOOR ]
HEY.
COME ON IN.
SMELLS GOOD IN HERE.
YEAH.
EL'S BEEN BAKING.
A COMMUTATION CAKE.
YEAH, I TOLD HER
IT WAS A LITTLE PREMATURE.
HEY, HONEY.
I GOT THAT OTHER CAKE.
[ LAUGHS ]
WAIT TILL YOU SEE IT.
HEY.
OH. HEY!OH. "HANG IN THERE."
LITTLE CAT
WITH AN ANKLET.
OH.
[ LAUGHS ]
CONSOLATION CAKE.AH.
RUM?
LOTS OF RUM.
THAT'LL BE GOOD.YEAH.YES.
WELL,
FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH,
I'M ACTUALLY VOTING
FOR CAKE NUMBER ONE.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
YOU GUYS TALK.
SO, HAVE YOU DECIDED?
WHAT I'M GONNA SAY?
HONESTLY...
NO. I HAVEN'T.
SO, WHAT'S SO IMPORTANT
YOU COULDN'T CALL?
WHY IS KRAMER SPEAKING
AT MY HEARING?
DON'T LET THAT
PUT YOU ON EDGE.
PETER, I'M STARING
AT TWO CAKES HERE.
ONE CELEBRATES MY FATE,
THE OTHER SEALS IT --
I AM ON EDGE. WHY IS HE HERE?
I DON'T KNOW.
FOR WHATEVER REASON,
KRAMER HAS DECIDED TO KEEP ME
OUT OF THE LOOP ON THIS.
HE'S KEEPING YOUOUT?
YEAH.
BUT I'VE GOT
AN INSIDE MAN.
HOW'D IT GO
WITH KRAMER?
HE HAD ME DIGGING THROUGH FILES
TILL 3:00 A.M.
WHAT'S
HE TRYING TO PROVE?
I DON'T KNOW.
WHEN HE TALKS ABOUT CAFFREY,
HE TALKS ABOUT HIM
IN GLOWING TERMS.
I NOTICED THAT.
HE SEEMS TO RESPECT THE HELL
OUT OF HIM.
BUT HE'S DIGGING
INTO THE CODED LETTERS
NEAL SENT KATE
FROM PRISON.
AND NOW THAT KRAMER'S
CRACKED THE CODE,
HE'S CONVINCED
HE'LL FIND SOMETHING.
YEAH. BUT WHAT?
HA HA! PETEY!
HOW ARE YOU?
I'M GOOD.
OH. IT'S AN INTERESTING PLACE
TO SET UP SHOP.
YOU SURE YOU WOULDN'T BE MORE
COMFORTABLE IN AN OFFICE?
WELL, I DON'T WANT TO INTRUDE
ON SOMEONE ELSE'S HOUSE.
AND THIS LETS ME
SPREAD OUT.
AND THIS ISTHE ROOM
WHERE WE FIND THE TRUTH.
THAT'S HOW
IT'S SUPPOSED TO WORK.
[ CHUCKLES ]
I NEED TO STRETCH
MY LEGS.
WALK WITH ME.
YOU'VE GOT SOMETHING
ON YOUR MIND?
YOU'RE STILL PULLING
NEAL'S CASEWORK.
IS THERE SOMETHING GOING ON
I SHOULD KNOW ABOUT?
MATTER OF FACT, THERE IS.
I'M WORRIED ABOUT YOU, PETE.
YOU'RE WORRIED?
YEAH. THE MUSIC BOX,
GARRETT FOWLER, THE U-BOAT.
THESE 515s READ MORE LIKE
PULP FICTION
THAN CASE SUMMARIES.
[ CHUCKLES ]
WHAT ARE YOU SAYING?
WELL, YOU KNOW
WHAT I'M SAYING.
YOU'RE COVERING FOR HIM.
NO, YOU'RE NOT?
IT'S COMPLICATED.
MM. IF ANYONE GETS IT,
I DO.
HE'S YOUR FRIEND.
HE IS, PHIL.
AND I WANT TO MAKE SURE
HE'S NOT GONNA HURT YOU.
YOU WANT HIM
BACK BEHIND BARS?
OH, NO, PETE.
HE'S MUCH TOO VALUABLE
FOR THAT.
MEANING?
I WANT NEAL WORKING FOR ME.
IN D.C.
WHEN DID YOU FIRST MEET
NEAL CAFFREY?
THE DAY HE WAS RELEASED
FROM PRISON.
THEY HAD SENT HIM TO THIS
HORRIBLE LITTLE FLEABAG MOTEL.
AND YOU HAD NO QUALMS ABOUT
TAKING IN A CONVICTED FELON?
ABSOLUTELY NOT.
NOT NEAL.
YOU SEE,
AFTER MY HUSBAND PASSED,
I...I WAS LIVING IN THIS BIG,
EMPTY HOUSE.
AND...NEAL CHANGED
ALL OF THAT.
I THINK OF HIM
AS A BLESSING.
BYRON AND I ALWAYS
WANTED A SON.
[ Voice breaking ]
I WISH HE WAS STILL ALIVE...
SO THAT HE COULD
FINALLY MEET HIM.
MISS ELLINGTON,
IN YOUR OPINION,
DOES NEAL CAFFREY DESERVE
FOR HIS SENTENCE TO BE COMMUTED?
OF COURSE.
YES.
AND YOU MUST
LET HIM GO FREE.
[ HORNS HONKING ]
HOW'D IT GO?
I NAILEDIT.
NICE.
[ FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING ]
WHAT ARE YOU THINKING?
I'M THINKING WE NEED
A THIRD CAKE.
ONE WITH A FILE IN IT?
ONE THAT SAYS
"BON VOYAGE."
KRAMER DOESN'T
WANT TO PUT NEAL AWAY.
HE WANTS TO KEEP HIM
FOR HIMSELF IN D.C.
HE'D TAKE NEAL AWAY
FROM YOU?
FOR MY OWN GOOD,
BUT THAT'S NOT...
WHAT IS IT?
ONE NIGHT,
FROM SUNSET TO SUNRISE,
I GAVE NEAL FULL IMMUNITY
TO TELL ME EVERYTHING
HE'D EVER DONE.
WOW. AND HE DID?
OH, BOY, HE DID.
BUT HE HAS FULL IMMUNITY.
IT WAS MYIMMUNITY,
NOT THE BUREAU'S.
IF KRAMER DIGS UP
THESE THINGS --
NEAL COULD GET
THE MAXIMUM.
FORGET D.C.
FORGET THE ANKLET.
HE COULD GO BACK
TO PRISON.
FOR A LONG, LONG TIME.
HAVE YOU TOLD HIM?
NO.
HON...
I CAN'T.
WHEN NEAL'S THREATENED,
HE GETS IN EVEN MORE TROUBLE.
TALK TO KRAMER.
HE'S YOUR FRIEND.
HE DOESN'T KNOW
THE PANDORA'S BOX HE'S OPENING.
[ ELEVATOR BELL DINGS ]
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
HEY.
I'M JUST SKIMMING
MONDAY'S CASELOAD,
TRYING TO GET
A HEAD START.
THIS GRABOWSKA INSURANCE FRAUD
LOOKS PRETTY PROMISING.
I LIKE THAT ATTITUDE.
[ CHUCKLES ]
I WONDERED HOW LONG
IT WOULD BE
BEFORE YOU CAME BACK
TO SEE ME.
PHILIP.
WE NEED TO TALK.
I SUPPOSE WE DO.
WHAT DO YOU HAVE
ON NEAL?
OH, THAT'S NOT
WHAT THIS IS ABOUT.
NEAL NEEDS BOUNDARIES.
I KNOW THAT.
YOU DO?
I TOLD YOU ABOUT MYC.I.
MY "NEAL."
YEAH.
YOU WERE CLOSE.
OH, WE WERE MORE THAN CLOSE.
HE WAS LIKE A SON.
HELL, I THOUGHT I'D BROUGHT HIM
ALL THE WAY AROUND,
BUT HE COULDN'T CHANGE
WHO HE WAS.
WELL, YOU KNOW, JUST BECAUSE
YOU SLAPPED CUFFS ON YOUR C.I.
DOESN'T MEAN THAT I'LL HAVE TO
DO THE SAME TO NEAL.
YOU KNOW THE STORY
OF THE FROG AND THE SCORPION?
MM-HMM.
NEAL'S THE SCORPION.
HE CAN'T HELP WHO HE IS.
BUT HE WILL STING YOU.
AND YOU'LL BOTH DROWN.
IN D.C.,
I CAN KEEP AN EYE ON HIM.
[ Chuckling ]
WHAT HAPPENS IN TWO YEARS,
WHEN HE'S A FREE MAN?
WHO'S TO SAY HE WILL BE?
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE AFTER.
YOU WANT TO USE
WHATEVER YOU FIND
TO EXTEND
HIS SENTENCE INDEFINITELY.
IT'S BEST
FOR ALL CONCERNED.
PHIL --
HE GETS TO DO
WHAT HE'S SO DAMN GOOD AT,
AND HE WON'T END UP
BEING LOCKED AWAY OR WORSE.
I DON'T THINK
HE SHOULD GO FREE.
YOU MEAN THAT?
I DO.
UNTIL THIS MOMENT,
I DIDN'T, BUT NO.
Neal: SARA.
NEAL SHOULD NOT GO FREE.
IN TWO YEARS TIME,
WHEN HIS SENTENCE ISOVER,
HE'S EARNED THAT RIGHT
TO DECIDE HIS OWN LIFE.
PETER...
AND UNTIL THEN,
NEAL'S STAYING HERE, WITH ME.
Sara: KRAMER IS
GOING TO SUBPOENA MY FILES?
THAT MEANS I WAS CLOSE
TO THE RAPHAEL.
YES.
I knew it!
You stole it!
MM, YOU CAUGHT ME.
NEAL!
THIS IS SO GREAT!
I'VE SPENT YEARS
LOOKING FOR THAT PAINTING.
HOW CLOSE WAS I?
KRAMER CRACKED
A CODED LETTER
THAT I WROTE IN PRISON
THAT INCLUDES A PARTIAL ADDRESS
OF WHERE I HID IT.
SO YOU THINK I HAVE
THE OTHER PART?
I KNOWYOU DO.
OH, MY GOD.
I WAS SOCLOSE.
YES, YOU WERE.
MM.
WELL, WE ALREADY PAID OUT
THAT CLAIM YEARS AGO.
YOUOWE STERLING BOSCH$15 MILLION.
Shh, shh!
IF I STAY OUT OF PRISON,
I WILL WORK IT OFF.
SO, A CODED ADDRESS
IN A PRISON LETTER --
THAT SEEMS KIND OF CHANCY.
OH, I LEFT OFF
THE ZIP CODE.
AND THE ADDRESS
IS ON MAIN STREET.
YOU KNOW HOW MANY MAIN STREETS
THERE ARE?
PROBABLY THOUSANDS.
19,364 -- AT THE TIME.
SO THE ADDRESS KRAMER FOUND
MEANS NOTHING.
UNLESS HE GETS HIS HANDS
ON THAT ZIP CODE.
IS THIS
WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR?
YES, IT IS.
ROOSEVELT ISLAND?
I FOUND THIS DIGGING THROUGH
A BOOZY COURIER'S TRASH.
I KNEW I SHOULDN'T HAVE
GIVEN UP THIS LEAD.
IS THIS THE ONLY COPY?
NO. WE KEEP ELECTRONIC COPIES
OF EVERYTHING ON THE SERVER.
SO I CAN'T
JUST THROW THIS ONE AWAY.
NO.
[ KEYBOARD CLACKING ]
AND I'VE BEEN LOCKED OUT.
Man: EXCUSE ME.
CAN I HELP YOU OUT, SIR?
Man #2: WE'RE HERE
TO SERVE A SUBPOENA.
WE NEED
ALL THE FILES RELATED
TO RAPHAEL'S SAINT GEORGE AND THE DRAGON.FBI.
YEAH.[ TELEPHONE RINGS ]
[ SIGHS ]
STERLING BOSCH.
THIS IS SARA ELLIS
SPEAKING.
KRAMER: Ms. Ellis.
Special Agent Kramer, FBI.
AGENT KRAMER!
WHAT CAN I DO TO HELP YOU, SIR?
MY AGENTS ARE SERVING A SUBPOENA
AT YOUR OFFICE
FOR ALL THE FILES RELATED
TO RAPHAEL'S SAINT GEORGE AND THE DRAGON.
[ BEEP ]
WHAT THE HELL AM I
SUPPOSED TO DO?
JUST BUY ME SOME TIME.
WELL, SIR,
YOU MUST HAVE HEARD.
HEARD WHAT?
WE RECOVERED THE PAINTING
THIS MORNING.
YOU RECOVERED THE RAPHAEL
THIS MORNING?
I WAS TOLD TO KEEP IT
UNDER WRAPS
AS WE'RE STILL
WORKING OUT THE DETAILS.
WELL,
WHERE'S THE PAINTING NOW?
WITH OUR AUTHENTICATOR.Good.
I'LL BE THERE MYSELF TO TAKE
POSSESSION OF THE PAINTING
BY END OF BUSINESS TODAY.
And I hope
you're telling me the truth.
BECAUSE IF IT'S NOT THERE
BY 6:00,
I'LL BE CHARGING YOU
WITH OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
YES, SIR.
I BOUGHT YOU SIX HOURS.
IF THAT PAINTING ISN'T IN MY
HANDS BY THE END OF THE DAY --
IT WILL BE.
[ EXHALES SHARPLY ]
Holloman: HAS YOUR PERSONAL
RELATIONSHIP WITH MR. CAFFREY
INFLUENCED
YOUR TESTIMONY TODAY?
OH, YES.
MOST DEFINITELY.
THIS ISN'T THE FIRST TIME
YOU'VE TESTIFIED
REGARDING MR. CAFFREY, IS IT?NO.
SIX YEARS AGO,
I TESTIFIED AGAINST HIM.
YES. AT THE TRIAL WHERE HE WAS
CONVICTED OF FORGERY?
YES.
AND I WENT AFTER HIM
WITH EVERYTHING I HAD.
I CALLED HIM A LIAR
AND A THIEF
AND PROBABLY A SOCIOPATH,
AND I MEANT EVERY WORD OF IT.
SO, WHAT CHANGED?
NEAL DID.
PETER: Neal?
Where are you?
YOU KNOW WHERE I AM.
YOU'RE AT THE
ROOSEVELT ISLAND TRAM.
YOU'RE AT THE EDGE
OF YOUR RADIUS.
KRAMER IS GOING AFTER
THE RAPHAEL.
[ SIGHS ]
YOU'LL RECALL
A NIGHT NOT LONG AGO
WHEN YOU SAID
I HAD IMMUNITY?
I REMEMBER, NEAL.
YOU'LL RECALL THAT I SAID
DON'T DO ANYTHING STUPID.
SEVEN YEARS AGO,
I DID SOMETHING STUPID.
KRAMER'S GOING AFTER
THE OLD NEAL CAFFREY.
I need more
than two miles today.
DAMN IT, NEAL, YOU'RE PLAYING
RIGHT INTO KRAMER'S HANDS.
YOU GET CAUGHT,
HE'S GOT YOU ON POSSESSION
OF STOLEN GOODS.
WITH YOUR PRIOR,
THAT'S 25 YEARS.
I CAN'T UNDO
WHAT'S ALREADY BEEN DONE.
BUT I CAN GET BACK
WHAT'S NOT MINE.
I GOT TO GO.
PETER, PLEASE,
EXTEND MY RADIUS.
WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
TO OPEN A DOOR
I DIDN'T WANT TO HAVE TO OPEN.
NEAL? NEAL!
[ BEEP ]
COME ON, PETER.
[ DIALING ]
MAN: Electronic Monitoring
Compliance Unit.
THIS IS BURKE, FBI.
COME ON.
THANK YOU, BUDDY.
[ DIALING ]
[ CELL PHONE RINGING ]
[ BEEP ]
I DON'T RECOGNIZE
THIS NUMBER.
SILENT RUNNING, MOZ.
KRAMER'S AFTER THE RAPHAEL.
Neal, where are you?
ON A TRAM HEADED
FOR ROOSEVELT ISLAND.
REALLY?
ROOSEVELT ISLAND? WHY?
I'LL EXPLAIN LATER.
RIGHT NOW I NEED YOU
TO FIND US TRANSPORTATION.
I MAY NEED YOUR HELP
GETTING BACK.
BYE.
[ BEEPING ]
[ Ringing ]
IT'S NEAL.
[ BUZZER ]
NEAL.
HELEN.
I HAVEN'T SEEN YOU
SINCE --
SINCE THE DAY
I RAN AWAY.
THIS IS NICE.
MM!
STILL LIVING BY THE RIVER,
I SEE.
IT'S BECOME MY HOME.
[ CHUCKLES ]
WOW.
IT'S BEEN
A COLD SPRING,
BUT THE HYDRANGEA
ARE COMING BACK.
IS IT HERE?
IT IS.
HOW MUCH TIME
DO YOU HAVE?
MAYBE 10 MINUTES.
[ SIGHS ] THEN LET'S MAKE
THE MOST OF IT.
JONES, CAN YOU PINPOINT WHERE
CAFFREY IS ON ROOSEVELT ISLAND?
YEAH. LOOKS LIKE
HE'S AT 4221 MAIN STREET.
ON MY WAY.
YOU LOOK GOOD.
AH.
THE SAME.
OH, PLEASE.
IT'S BEEN NEARLY
A DECADE AND A HALF.
YEAH, IT WAS
MY 18th BIRTHDAY.
YEAH, I KIND OF RUINED
THATONE FOR YOU.
[ CHUCKLES ]
IT WAS A HELL OF A THING
FOR A KID TO HEAR.
I SAVED THIS FOR YOU.
YOU AND YOUR FATHER.OH, MY GOD.
YOU STILL HAVE HIS EYES.
TRUTH.
DO YOU HATE ME
FOR TELLING YOU WHAT I DID?
NO.
NO, MY MOM TOLD ME
HE WAS DEAD.
SAID HE DIED A HERO,
BUT YOU TOLD ME THE TRUTH.
HE WAS A DIRTY COP...
AND HE'S NOT DEAD.
YOU WERE GONNA GO
AND JOIN THE FORCE.
I TOLD YOUR MOTHER,
"THE MOMENT HE SETS FOOT
IN THE POLICE ACADEMY,
HE'S GONNA
GET AN EARFUL."
TRUTH.
WAS MY FATHER
ALWAYS CORRUPT?
WE MET WHEN WE BECAME PARTNERS
AS FIRST-YEAR DETECTIVES.
HE WAS THE BEST...
THEN.
THE EVIL CAME AFTER.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHY
YOU'RE HERE.
NO.
4221 MAIN STREET.
IT'S A HIGH-RISE.
YEAH, I RAN
ALL THE TENANTS.
The person in 14-E's
been flagged.
FLAGGED BY WHOM?
THE MARSHALS.
E. Parker's
in witness protection.
THANKS, JONES.
HERE IT IS. KEPT IT SAFE.
DIDN'T OPEN IT.
IT'S POSTMARKED THE DAY
BEFORE YOU WERE ARRESTED.
YEAH.
KATE NEVER CAME
TO GET IT?
THE PRETTY GIRL
WITH THE DARK HAIR.
YEAH.
SHE DID.
ALMOST FIVE YEARS AGO NOW.
BUT SHE DIDN'T TAKE IT?
SHE CHANGED HER MIND.
SAID SHE WANTED YOU
TO HAVE IT.
WHAT ABOUT MY MOM?
DID YOU EVER --
NO.
I HAVEN'T SEEN OR HEARD
FROM HER -- OR YOUR FATHER --
IT'S BEEN YEARS.
I HAVE TO ADMIT
I'M CURIOUS.
WHAT IS IN THERE
THAT'S SO SPECIAL?
SOMETHING I TOOK TRYING
TO GET BACK A LIFE I LOST,
AND IT'S BEEN CHASING ME
EVER SINCE.
BETTER NOT
LET IT CATCH YOU.
LISTEN --
COMING HERE, I'M SORRY.
THE FBI IS GONNA SHOW UP.
THEY'LL ASK QUESTIONS.
THIS ISLAND WAS GETTING
A LITTLE SMALL FOR ME ANYWAY.
[ CHUCKLES ]
NOW, GO.
THANK YOU.
FOR EVERYTHING.
DO I WANT TO KNOW
WHAT'S IN THERE?
PLAUSIBLE DENIABILITY.
COME ON,
LET'S CATCH THAT TRAM.
MY CAR'S ON
THE OTHER SIDE.
[ CLEARS THROAT ]
WHO IS E. PARKER?
I'VE NEVER
TOLD ANYONE THIS --
NOT EVEN MOZ.
[ CELL PHONE RINGING ]
YOU GONNA GET THAT?
[ BEEP ]
DIANA:
Peter, it's Diana.
HEY.
I'M WITH KRAMER.
HE KNOWS CAFFREY'S
ON ROOSEVELT ISLAND.
WHERE ARE YOU?
WE'RE AT THE TRAM TERMINAL,
MANHATTAN SIDE.
DAMN IT.
WHAT'S GOING ON?
You're with Caffrey.
YEAH. AND WE'RE HEADED
RIGHT TO YOU.
LET ME FIRST SAY
THAT AGENT BURKE AND I
HAVE BEEN MARRIED
FOR 12 YEARS.
IT'S A PARTNERSHIP
THAT'S BUILT ON RESPECT,
ADMIRATION, AND TRUST.
AND HOW IS THIS
RELEVANT?
PETER'S RELATIONSHIP
WITH NEAL
IS BASED ON
THE SAME ELEMENTS.
YOUR HUSBAND
TRUSTS NEAL?
HE DOES.
WHEN IT COUNTS.
WHEN IT COUNTS?
[ CHUCKLES ]
WELL, NEAL WASA CON MAN.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'D WANT HIM
DATING YOUR SISTER.
CAN I TAKE THAT BACK?
NO.
LISTEN --
PETER AND NEAL TOGETHER,
THEY ARGUE AND BICKER.
BUT IN THE END --
WHEN IT COUNTS --
PETER PUTS UP WITH NEAL
BECAUSE HE'S WORTH IT.
SHOULD MR. CAFFREY'S SENTENCE
BE COMMUTED?
YES.
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
THIS IS NOTGOOD.
NO, WE RIDE THIS OUT,
AND YOU'RE PUT AWAY
FOR 20 YEARS.
WELL, MAYBE
THERE'S ANOTHER WAY.
WHAT?
NO. FORGET THAT.
YOU'LL NEVER SURVIVE
THE FALL.
I'M NOT GONNA TO JUMP.
THEN WHAT THE HELL
ARE YOU PLANNING?
HELP ME OUT
AND I'LL TELL YOU.
NO, TELL ME,
THENI'LL HELP YOU OUT.
YOU FIRST.
[ EXHALES SHARPLY ]
FINE.
[ GRUNTS ]
THANK YOU.
AND?
AND I'M DOUBLING BACK
TOWARD ROOSEVELT ISLAND.
WISH ME LUCK.
WHAT? NO.
NEAL, THAT'S CRAZY.
DAMN IT,
GET BACK IN HERE!
NEAL!
YOU'LL NEVER MAKE IT!
WOW.
[ CELL PHONE RINGING ]
WHAT'S UP, MOZ?
NEAL,
YOU GOT A SECOND?
I do now.
IT SOUNDS WINDY
WHERE YOU ARE.
YEAH. WHAT IS IT?
SARA AND I
HAVE A PLAN.
ARE YOU STILL
ON ROOSEVELT ISLAND?
I WILL BE SOON.
I've carved out
an escape route.
MEET ME
AT THE TRAFFIC CIRCLE
WHERE ROAD 5
AND EAST ROAD CONNECT.
I'M ON MY WAY.
YOU GONNA TELL ME
WHAT HAPPENED UP THERE?
I TRACKED NEAL
TO THE ISLAND.
I WAS
BRINGING HIM BACK --
THEN WHERE IS HE?HE'D BE HERE WITH ME NOW
IF YOU HADN'T THROWN
A DOZEN GUNS AT HIS FACE.
THIS IS MYFAULT?
YOU BOX HIM IN,
HE'S GONNA RUN.
YOU HAVE NO IDEA
HOW TO HANDLE HIM.
IDO.
[ CHUCKLES ]
CLEARLY.
TELL ME, PETE.
NEAL HAVE THE PAINTING
ON HIM?
NOT THAT I SAW.
ARE YOU HANDLING HIM
OR BECOMINGHIM?
SIR. THE EASTBOUND TRAM
IS APPROACHING THE ISLAND.
MAINTAIN PURSUIT ON CAFFREY.
I'M HEADING DOWNTOWN.
[ CAR DOOR CLOSES ]
NEAL'S GOT UNDER AN HOUR
TO MEET SARA ELLIS.
IF HE MAKES IT,
I'LL BE WAITING FOR HIM.
[ TIRES SCREECH ]
Man: RIGHT NOW.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
Woman: COMING IN NOW.MOM, LOOK AT THAT.
NEAL?
MOZ, START THE ENGINE!
[ ENGINE TURNS OVER ]
[ SIRENS WAILING ]
[ TIRES SCREECH ]
[ WAILING CONTINUES ]
CAFFREY UNDERSTANDS PEOPLE.
YOU NEED SPACE,
HE KEEPS TO HIMSELF.
YOU NEED TO TALK,
HE LISTENS.
YOU NEED A BEER,
HE'LL POUR.
[ CHUCKLES ] ALTHOUGH HE'LL LET
YOU KNOW HE'S SLUMMING IT.
DO YOU SUPPORT
HIS COMMUTATION?
HE'S DAMN GOOD
AT WHAT HE DOES,
AND I CONSIDER HIM
A FRIEND.
BUT THAT DOESN'T CHANGE
THE FACT
THAT HE'S A CONVICTED
BOND FORGER
AND PRISON ESCAPEE.
I THINK HE SHOULD FINISH OUT
HIS TWO YEARS WITH THE BUREAU
AND BE GRATEFUL...
THAT HE'S GOT THE BEST DAMN DEAL
I'VE EVER SEEN.
OKAY, SARA'S WAITING FOR YOU
AT STERLING BOSCH.
IF YOU CAN MAKE THE HAND-OFF
IN TIME, YOU'RE GOLDEN.
"IF."
WELL, THE ODDS OF YOU
MAKING IT ARE --
I KNOW, MOZ.
BUT I DON'T HAVE
A CHOICE.
YES.
YOU DO.
[ INDISTINCT RADIO CHATTER ]
WHAT'S LOLANA DOING HERE?
WELL, DURING OUR BRIEF
ALIENATION --
BEFORE THE WHOLE
KELLER FIASCO...
...I MOVED YOUR PORTION OF
THE TREASURE OUT OF THE COUNTRY,
SHOULD YOU EVER CARE
TO CLAIM IT.
YOU SAVED MY HALF?
WELL, A LITTLE LESS
THAN HALF.
I WAS ANGRY -- SUE ME.
IT'S STILL WORTH MORE
THAN EITHER OF US
COULD EVER SPEND
IN A LIFETIME.
WE COULD RUN.
RIGHT NOW.
NEVER LOOK BACK.
I DON'T WANT TO RUN
ANYMORE, MOZ.
Dispatcher: ALL UNITS, BE ON THE LOOKOUT
FOR STOLEN AMBULANCE 313.
THAT'S US.
SO MUCH FOR NOT RUNNING.
I HAVE TO FINISH THIS.
I SOMEHOW KNEW
YOU WERE GONNA SAY THAT.
BUT FOR LOLANA'S SAKE,
I HAD TO GIVE IT A TRY.
GO.
I'LL LEAD
THE FEDERAL BLOODHOUNDS
ON A CHASE OF
THE WILD-GOOSE VARIETY.
THANKS, MOZ.
HERE.
IF I DON'T MAKE IT,
YOU AND LOLANA WILL NEED THAT
TO GET TO THE ISLAND
WITHOUT ME.
YOU'LL MAKE IT.
[ SLAPS DOOR LIGHTLY ]
[ ENGINE TURNS OVER ]
[ CELL PHONE RINGS ]HEY, SARA.
WHERE ARE YOU?
A FEW BLOCKS AWAY.
LISTEN -- MEET ME IN THE LOBBY.
IT'S GONNA BE CLOSE.
NEAL, I --
[ SIGHS ]
[ CELL PHONE RINGS ][ SIGHS ]
NEAL.
SARA,
HAVE YOU HEARD FROM NEAL?
HE'S GOT THE PAINTING,
BUT HE'S NOT GONNA
GET PAST KRAMER.
He may not have to.
GET US A MEETING WITH YOUR BOSS
IN THE NEXT FIVE MINUTES.
I'LL TRY.Don't try. Do it.
[ BEEP ]
I HAVE EYES ON CAFFREY.
NOT GOOD.
HEADING EAST ON PEARL.
OH,
I'M GONNA REGRET THIS.
[ BEEPING ]
WHAT?! HEY! HEY!
YOU GOT TO MOVE THAT THING!
NO CAN DO, MA'AM.
[ TIRES SCREECHING ]
WHOA!
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?!
WHOA, WHOA, WHOA!
HEY!
[ TIRES SCREECH ]NEAL!
GET IN!
[ TIRES SCREECH ]
WOMAN: Agent Kramer,
we lost Caffrey.
Kramer: ALL UNITS FALL BACK
TO STERLING BOSCH.
FORM A PERIMETER
AROUND THE BUILDING.
[ TIRES SCREECH ]
THANK YOU.GOOD LUCK, CAFFREY.
YOUR PROPOSAL...
IT ALL SEEMS
HIGHLY IRREGULAR.
YES, MR. BOSCH,
BUT YOU CAN ADMIT
THAT IRREGULARITY
HAS WORKED VERYWELL FOR ME
IN THE PAST.
AND I'M OFFERING YOU
AN OPPORTUNITY
TO MAKE $15 MILLION
IN FIVE MINUTES.
AGENT BURKE, YOU CAN ASSURE ME
THIS IS ALL LEGAL?
I WOULDN'T BE HERE
IF IT WEREN'T.
WHAT DO I HAVE TO DO?
JUST SIGN
SOME START PAPERWORK, SIR.
I'D SAY THIS MOMENT
WAS INEVITABLE,
WOULDN'T YOU, NEAL?
I KNEW YOU COULD BE
REASONABLE.
I THINK YOU MIGHT TAKE
A REAL SHINE TO D.C. AFTER ALL.
DON'T COUNT ON IT.
AH, YOU DO THE HONORS,
PETE.
I should have listened to you.
I played right into his hands.
It's not over yet.
RAPHAEL'S SAINT GEORGE AND THE DRAGON.
A SEMINAL WORK.
Sara: EXCUSE ME.
THAT PAINTING IS PROPERTY
OF STERLING BOSCH INSURANCE.
[ CHUCKLES ]
VALIANT EFFORT, MS. ELLIS.
THIS IS EVIDENCE
IN A CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION.
INVESTIGATION INTO WHAT?
CLASS "B" POSSESSION
OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
AND YOU ARE?
WINSTON BOSCH.
THIS YOUNG LADY WORKS FOR ME.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE HERE
WITH STOLEN PROPERTY.
THIS PAINTING --
BELONGS TO
STERLING BOSCH.
WE HIRED MR. CAFFREY
TO AUTHENTICATE IT FOR US.
THE HELL YOU DID.
YES. IDID. HERE.
MR. CAFFREY IS QUITE
THE ART EXPERT.
HE'S EVEN WORKED FOR THE FBI
AS AN AUTHENTICATOR.
I CAN ATTEST TO THAT.
AND IF HE'S GOOD ENOUGH
FOR YOU,
HE'S GOOD ENOUGH FOR ME.
YOU'RE PART OF THIS?
WELL, MR. CAFFREY,
WHAT'S YOUR PROFESSIONAL
ASSESSMENT OF THIS PIECE?
OH, THAT IS DEFINITELY
THE REAL RAPHAEL.
I'D STAKE MY REPUTATION
ON IT.
EXCELLENT.
AND FOR YOUR SERVICES --
$1,200.
SORRY. NEAL'S NOT ALLOWED
TO ACCEPT PAYMENT
WHILE HE WORKS FOR US.
OH?
EVEN BETTER.
SEE YOU AROUND, CAFFREY.SEE YOU AROUND.
[ SIGHS ]
WHY DON'T YOU HEAD HOME?
GET SOME REST.
GOT A BIG DAY TOMORROW.
YOU GONNA BE OKAY?
I'LL BE FINE. GO.
YOU WENT BEHIND MY BACK,
CONSPIRED TO
OBSTRUCT JUSTICE.
I COULD SAY
YOU DID THE SAME.
WAKE UP, PETEY!
OPEN YOUR EYES!
YOU'RE NOT HIS PARTNER.
YOU'RE HIS MARK!
THIS BOY'S RUN
SUCH A GOOD CONFIDENCE GAME,
HE'S GOT YOU THINKING
THAT YOU'VE COME OUT AHEAD
IN ALL THIS.
WHEN DID YOU STOP PUTTING FAITH
IN PEOPLE?
WHEN THEY STOPPED
DESERVING IT.
OH.
THIS ISN'T OVER YET, PETE.
NOT BY A LONG SHOT.
MR. CAFFREY,
DO YOU DESERVE TO BE FREE?
THAT'S NOT FOR ME
TO DECIDE.
I WON'T SIT HERE
AND GIVE YOU SOME MONOLOGUE
ABOUT HOW REFORMED I AM.
ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER
THAN WORDS,
AND, HOPEFULLY, MY ACTIONS
WHILE IN SERVICE TO THE FBI
SAY MORE THAN I CAN.
AND WHAT WOULD YOU DO
WITH YOUR FREEDOM?
WELL, I CAN
TELL YOU ONE THING.
I WON'T BE GOING ANYWHERE
ANYTIME SOON.
YOU WON'T?
NO.
I'M HAPPY HERE.
YOU KNOW,
SOMEONE ONCE TOLD ME
MY LIFE IS A DREAM
WITH AN ANKLET ATTACHED.
IF I WAKE UP TOMORROW
AND THAT ANKLET IS STILL ON --
I HAVE A GOOD JOB,
A WONDERFUL HOME...
A PARTNER
AND A BEST FRIEND.
A FAMILY.
BUT TO WAKE UP
AND ANSWER ONLY TO MYSELF...
...THAT WOULD MEAN
EVERYTHING.
WE HAVE ONE MORE INTERVIEW
TO CONDUCT
BEFORE WE MAKE
OUR DECISION.
YOU'LL HAVE AN ANSWER HERE TODAY
BY 5:00 P.M.
THANK YOU.
HEY.
HOW'D IT GO?
AS WELL AS IT COULDGO,
I THINK.
YOU KNOW
WHAT THE NICE THING IS?
HMM?
IT DOESN'T MATTER.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WELL, YOU'RE GONNA GO IN THERE
AND SAY YOUR PIECE,
AND THE BOARD'S GONNA MAKE
THEIR DECISION.
BUT WITH OR WITHOUT
MY ANKLET,
COME MONDAY MORNING,
I'M GONNA STEP OFF THAT ELEVATOR
ON THE 21st FLOOR
AND GO TO WORK.
YOU ONCE TOLD ME
YOU NEVER LIED TO ME
AND YOU NEVER WILL.
SO I NEED TO KNOW
SOMETHING.
THE FIRST TIME KRAMER AND I
WENT AFTER YOU FOR THE DEGAS,
HOW'D YOU SWITCH
THE PAINTINGS?
I SNUCK UP TO THE PENTHOUSE,
PULLED THE SWAP,
THEN BASE-JUMPED
OFF THE BUILDING
AND LANDED
ON WALL STREET.
[ CHUCKLES ]
FINE. DON'TTELL ME.
I GOT TO GO IN.
THAT PERSON YOU SAW
ON ROOSEVELT ISLAND --
WHO WAS IT?
WHEN THIS IS OVER...
I'LL TELL YOU EVERYTHING.
SEE YOU SOON.
THEY'RE READY FOR YOU NOW,
AGENT BURKE.
THANKS, HENRY.
WHAT IS THIS?
THESE MARSHALS ARE HERE
TO TAKE NEAL CAFFREY
INTO CUSTODY
WHEN HE RETURNS.
FOR WHAT?
IF YOU HAD ONLY LISTENED
TO ME.
FOR WHAT?PUBLIC ENDANGERMENT.
I'VE GOT A DOZEN
EYEWITNESSES
WHO SAW CAFFREY
HOP THAT TRAM.
COMBINE THAT
WITH EVADING ARREST,
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
HELL, I MAY EVEN THROW IN
A JAYWALKING CHARGE
FOR GOOD MEASURE.
WE'RE NOT IN
THE REVENGE BUSINESS.
NEAL PISSED YOU OFF,
AND NOW YOU WANT TO HURT HIM.
JUST CONTROL HIM.
NEAL'S GOT A LOT
OF SKELETONS.
I'LL PICK ONE,
SLAP THAT ANKLET ON HIM,
AND HE'LL WORK FOR ME
IN D.C. PERMANENTLY.
YOU UNDERSTAND THIS IS BEST
FOR EVERYONE, DON'T YOU?
DON'T YOU?
I HAVE A STATEMENT
TO MAKE.
STATE YOUR NAME AND RELATIONSHIP
TO NEAL CAFFREY
FOR THE RECORD, PLEASE.
SPECIAL AGENT PETER BURKE.
I'VE BEEN
NEAL CAFFREY'S HANDLER
AT THE FEDERAL BUREAU
OF INVESTIGATION
SINCE HIS RELEASE
INTO OUR CUSTODY.
YOUCAUGHT HIM?
TWICE.
AND YOU SHOULD KNOW,
THE LAST TIME I CAUGHT HIM,
HE WAS SITTING ALONE
IN AN EMPTY APARTMENT.
HE HAD NOTHING.
NO ONE.
AND NOW?
HE HAS A LIFE.
A REAL LIFE HERE.
ONE THAT KEEPS HIM GROUNDED
AND DECENT.
AS YOU'VE HEARD,
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE
WHO CARE ABOUT NEAL,
PEOPLE WHO SEE HIM
AS MORE THAN JUST A CRIMINAL.
HE'S FRUSTRATING,
I'LL ADMIT.
HE DRIVES ME CRAZY
ON HIS BEST DAYS.
I DON'T ALWAYS HAVE TO KNOW
WHERE NEAL IS
OR WHAT HE'S UP TO.
BUT I DO KNOW
THAT HE HAS A GOOD HEART
AND A SET OF PRINCIPLES...[ BEEPING ]
...THAT WEREN'T THERE
SIX YEARS AGO
WHEN HE WAS JUST
ANOTHER CASE FILE
THAT GOT DROPPED
ON MY DESK.
DO YOU THINK
MR. CAFFREY IS REFORMED?
AS LONG AS HE'S ON THAT ANKLET,
WE'LL NEVER KNOW.
WE CAN SIT HERE
UNTIL KINGDOM COME
AND DEBATE OVER
WHO IS NEAL CAFFREY.
BUT AS LONG
AS WE KEEP HIM TETHERED,
AS LONG AS WE TREAT HIM
LIKE A CRIMINAL,
HE'LL ALWAYS THINK
THAT HE IS ONE.
WHETHER NEAL IS A CITIZEN,
A C.I., OR A THIEF
IS A DECISION THAT NEEDS
TO BE PUT IN HIS HANDS.
[ CELL PHONE RINGS ]AGENT BURKE...
HELLO?...SHOULD NEAL CAFFREY'S
SENTENCE BE COMMUTED?
YES.
I'M SAYING NEAL
SHOULD BE FREE.
I'M SORRY --
THIS COULDN'T WAIT.
PETER, CAFFREY'S
CUT HIS ANKLET.
NEAL'S GONE.